h2{color:red}. *SECTION TWO - QUESTIONS & ANSWERS*

h3{color:red}. How is security handled in LMDE?

* if security is THE most important value for you, then you probably shouldn't be using LMDE/debian testing/sid (stable is your answer)
* "debian testing security team":http://secure-testing-master.debian.net/ is responsible for:

bq.. The team is providing security support for Debian's testing branch by

writing patches and doing "NMUs":http://wiki.debian.org/NonMaintainerUpload to unstable as necessary
tracking the fixed packages and working with the Debian Release Managers to make sure fixes reach testing quickly
if this process is too slow, providing fixed packages built against testing in the testing-security apt repository:

```sources.list
  deb http://security.debian.org testing/updates main contrib non-free
  deb-src http://security.debian.org testing/updates main contrib non-free
```

However, the majority of security fixes reach testing by migration from unstable. (more about NMUs "here":http://www.debian.org/doc/manuals/developers-reference/pkgs.html#nmu and "here":http://wiki.debian.org/LowThresholdNmu).

p. 
* as you can see above only as a last resort the security fixes are pulled down though security.debian.org and only for debian main (contrib and non-free are not supported by the security team)

bq. Contrib and non-free aren't official parts of the Debian Distribution and are not released, and thus not supported by the security team. Some non-free packages are distributed without source or without a license allowing the distribution of modified versions. In those cases no security fixes can be made at all. If it is possible to fix the problem, and the package maintainer or someone else provides correct updated packages, then the security team will generally process them and release an advisory.

* sid has no security team:

bq. Unstable is a rapidly moving target and the security team does not have the resources needed to properly support it.

* "some more reading":http://www.debian.org/security/faq

h3{color:red}. Can i use PPA's in LMDE?

* short answer: no, it will break your debian installation;
* long answer: it's your system, you do with it what you want, if you break it, "you keep the pieces, we laugh at you"; but you were warned: PPA's are ubuntu-specific repos and more often than not you will find hidden incompatibilities "as happens with others ubuntu libs":http://forums.linuxmint.com/viewtopic.php?f=198&t=67502&p=482881&hilit=libpixman#p482881
* even knowing this you want/need a random PPA? fine! we expect from you to know how to manually add an entry to your sources.list.

h3{color:red}. Why are my applications not the latest possible version?

* let's assume (for the sake of this answer) that's there's nothing wrong with your sources.list (check above to see if your repos are correct)
* if you are using latest or incoming there's a buffer between your UP and testing "see":http://blog.linuxmint.com/?p=1781, that buffer can be longer or shorter, leading to a lag compared to testing.
* if you are using testing, you might find out that not always you have the latest v. available, it's not surprising if you look at the requirements for the the pkgs migration from sid to testing:

bq.. A package is installed into the testing dist from DebianUnstable automatically when a list of requirements is fulfilled:

The package is at least 10 days old.
The package has been built for all the architectures which the present version in testing was built for.
Installing the package into testing will not make the distribution more uninstallable.
The package does not introduce new release critical bugs. "here":http://wiki.debian.org/DebianTesting

p. 
* the newest pkgs arrive on sid or experimental and from there down to testing (after the high debian requirements are fulfilled)
* but if you look at "this":http://www.debian.org/doc/manuals/maint-guide/start.en.html and "this":http://www.debian.org/doc/manuals/maint-guide/first.en.html we easily see that it takes more than being a good hacker and have a great app to have the latest&greatest available in debian's ftp's.